okay cool let's do it hello everybody
and welcome to the ISS Cory parent
ations weekly sync it's July the 15th is
2019 still it's kind of summertime
outside here anyway so I'm cool I
created the doc because there was no doc
and and I put some things in it
so I thought we might want to talk about
them if you are here please put your
name on the attendees list can I get
someone to take notes for today or
volunteer to take notes at least
Thank You Molly Brad okay cool so yeah
okay I'm not sure I'd entirely exactly
how it works but we've got a note-taker
we've got everyone we're putting their
names on and then so I'm just gonna kind
of go through the document and see what
see what happens if you've got
initiatives like things that are kind of
big overall tasks or projects that are
happening then and you want to kind of
give an update about them and they feel
it's important then put that put that
down in the dock and if there are any
blockers that you have in your weekly
update oh yeah you should probably tell
people about that if you ever have a
weekly update of what you've done what
you're blocked on and what you've got
next put it on the bottom of the nearing
the bottom of the document just so you
have a record we won't talk over of it
over it all but if you have any blockers
that you'd like to talk about we'll talk
about those after the initiatives put
them in the blockers section underneath
the initiatives section and we will be
sure to check through them and hopefully
unblock use so let's take ourselves
through the initiatives we've got one
here upgrade release process would
someone like to kind of give an update
on this I'm sure was this teeny bit
about that yeah this is the PRF we just
merged actually so this go professed has
a gated release process I'll just yeah
but the status you could read the new
released doc the huge things to might
both Alex and to be wonderful and then
yeah that's that you can also read the
current run we're trying to run which is
the zero point four point twenty two -
RC one release
and the objective is to also put out a
blog post about our new release process
for which I have put a very very high
level stub
but we need to flesh it out with all of
the decisions I think you can before we
move on that's gonna do right for that
as well anyone want to volunteer for the
blog post yes okay I think it's
something I could do
finish it up it's just headers so people
actually immunity all right everyone
else in here huh cool take a pass and
bless us in as as we're needed
okay this is very good news that we're
going to be upgrading our release
process and and making it more well
tested doing Morrissey's getting people
to test it before it goes goes out
generally having more stable reliable
releases and the possibility of
following Semba as well to some extent
so that is super good news in my opinion
anyone have anything else to say about
that before you move on Oh shall we get
on with it
all right let's get on with it upgrade
testing process go ipfs yeah okay Steven
I guess again is that you yes everyone
should read that linked document yeah
this is the current plan it's obviously
up for debate and change for how to
start or basically the required steps to
start really seeing fest again and then
after that like the rest of the plan
this is again more focused on good best
because that's really the only people
relying on in a lot of production
systems we can also import a lot of us
actually to GSF events and run same
tests against it basically if we can
kind of release we want to get the first
for once again yeah yeah first for
milestones done which unfortunately
means probably two to three months of
work so this also required buy-in from
many different teams you may notice that
some people are here listed as do
something to be surprised but will
hopefully be pulling help from in frog
from package managers gateway team from
just about everywhere that's all
infamous cousins meeting just read this
talking because this later is there a
place where the conversations gonna
happen going forward about this Tosca it
is accessible and commendable by
everyone but not a great
to have a long credit discussion about
priority in the comment section on the
spreadsheet it's kind of rough so we
have the testing Improvement Plan issue
in fest we could have a discussion there
I can link to this and also like I've
did everything there that version has
all things we need to do just not like
so are we making this talking public or
not I have because he linked it in the
notes that's considered so you said it
would be a number of months potentially
before the testing process is ready
which so what is the upshot of that does
that mean that there's no kind of major
releases of go ipfs until then or and
just release patch releases like you
know bug fixes yeah that's basically the
plan it we don't feel yeah sure that we
won't introduce progressions it is also
partially the fact like we've been
saying we want to do this for ages and
we haven't been doing it this is a way
to to force us to actually make progress
and that's actually like up way to our
engineering process at the moment we're
kind of retreating go at best it's kind
of like application right yes test
things but we won't like really test it
like even test like a distributed
storage system or the new hammer on it
like see how it actually works in
practice typically yeah we need to say
we need a little protesting for like out
testing to like like our system system
and then that services and fewer bugs
right yeah also better understanding of
like where performance issues art and it
yet at the moment it's kind of like
you'll feel a lot of pain testing and we
can again this is less about more about
like performance regressions at scale
it's like we have a bugs but there's
actually far and few between yeah got it
cool thank you alright that is the
upgrade testing process so this next
section is something I've put in
for J sake FS and there is at the moment
a big kind of falling this really last
quarter that all most of this work has
been done and it's only this only now
that kind of we've been able to look
into it and and start fixing our anyway
but so garbage collection doesn't exist
in JSI events and one of the things that
we kind of need if we're gonna store any
data in Jessica Fest is a like some good
pinning and be some ability to collect
garbage when when we were using our node
and we don't need the data anymore
because otherwise the repost is gonna
continue to grow so there is so I put a
heart emoji and duck MC at the bottom of
there because it is basically all of
Dirk's
good work that he's done on this and
he's done a really good job of looking
into what what go ipfs stars and to do
something similar and and so yeah it's
it's kinda it's coming along I've been
reviewing the pull request they are
large there's a lot of stuff that it
touches but they're like we are kind of
reasonably close on sites like having a
kind of first past implementation of
garbage collection working in a similar
way that doesn't go activist also
working in China succubus oh man that's
cool and so like I put there it's kind
of uncovered a few problems with our
existing pinning things like our
internal blocks were being kind of
provided to the DHT so we need to fix
that we realize that go ipfs uses an
in-memory IP o d for those for those
nodes i believe so that they don't get
put onto the DHD
and so yeah when you sort that out and
we found out a couple of other problems
with pin types not being filtered
properly for pin LS and we know that
performance is not great when pinning in
Jessica fest at the moment so there is I
think that's been also been looking into
how we might fix up that so next next up
for that is just
- well finish off the reviews for the
PRS fix them up and change things get
them merged and and yeah hopefully
hopefully that's that would be done and
dusted does anyone have any questions
about that I have one question very
quick because okay I don't remember this
hundred percent but I remember like at
some point in time we had problems we
need XE be Auto garbage collection right
now so when you started filling in annex
VIII database like the browser itself
will be the one trying to garbage
collect just ensure like my kid oh no it
keeps the objects that are most most
used and I'm wondering if this work with
GC like contemplates that and like test
for different browsers because there's
also problems in Firefox Chrome in which
I don't respect second flags we we like
try to get next to meet these things are
we destined for those things or or this
is just like first version per situation
yet so you broke up with just two at the
end there I didn't are you saying that
the the browser will just garbage
collects your stuff you put it in the
next CD like hitting these problems in
the past
I can I just searched more information
but like as far as I can remember
depending on how you set up in xev it
will like out like garbage collect but I
I'll just do my own work and I could
find the links and then I was not aware
of that that is good prior knowledge
yeah if you have any insight into it I
was already carrying here on the okay
I am aware unless Dirk is that we have
taken that sort of thing into a gown no
this is really really just the first
pass implementation
I think garbage collection is a pretty
big topic and as Toby it's kind of
alluding to we'll need to do some pretty
serious on different browsers and stuff
to make sure it's actually working
there's also a slight discussion in the
chat about putting putting things in the
DHT and whether or not that's
intentional so like Jas versus go IP us
behavior here someone want to summarize
that for the notes yeah I don't know
about that Steven can you clarify your
point Mike wait there was that for
providing version for re providing we
just walked the data store I don't think
we even look at or exclude anything
that's in the inset I mean he should but
you do for initial provides again I
don't I'm not sure what we do there I
don't know if we take any explicit if
you do any things mostly to avoid
providing him think might but it would
be kind of a hack anyways is not very
reliable yeah so okay so the pin set is
actually still hurt as a dag and I feel
the diag inside the datastore the
question is like I'm not I'm not sure if
we like create a separates the block
service stack when we initially write
these to the datastore I know we
definitely provide because we don't have
any of the distinction there but we
initially write them we make quite
separate stack I don't know I mean I can
check that quickly
okay if you examine anyway that'll be
great um but yeah cool that is garbage
collection and it's coming to a JSI be
best node near to you and then so the
second thing i I wanted to talk about
also I put this down to dedicated
routing I know this is this is something
that's kind of super important to me
that's working in the browser the idea
is if you can't find peers and retrieve
your content how about you ask someone
who can and that's that's basically
delegating delegated routing and what
happens is that you have a node an IQ
best node on the internet and we open up
some HTTP API endpoints that you can
call like find probes and refs and swarm
connect and you can essentially ask that
load to to to find peers and and fetch
content for you so that you don't have
to do it yourself and in the browser
that's sometimes necessary because we
have problems such as like same origin
policy we don't have a DHT even if we
did we wouldn't necessarily be able to
connect to half the people on the DHT
because of same origin policy and people
with web sockets that's that's fine but
a lot of them are on just HTTP and
connecting to them from HTTPS is
impossible so yeah we have challenges in
the browser we have GSI person delegated
routing is one of those one of those
things that can that can really kind of
help that connectivity magic feeling at
least even if it isn't actually a curly
and I peer-to-peer thing one of the
things that is blocking this from from
being realized and being released in J's
okay this is the fact we need a way of
configuring the go IDF s demon gateway
port so what we've done at the moment is
we have some public knows where we
configured nginx
to to do this but actually we need the
configuration to be
go ipfs if we are going to allow other
people to set up their own delegated
notes with easily so just just to say
that is what it is
there are two modules that I've been
working on this week they've been around
for a while I had to sort out the
dependencies they were depending on a
really old version of I can that's
httpclient
the old one called HTTP api TFS api
which meant that we had an extra 200k of
bundle size put being pulled into our
bundles so I fixed that up so that's no
longer the case so they are ready to go
we just need this this thing in go I
confess to be implemented or well fixed
up implemented for it to be kind of
fully realized and that's delegated
routine any questions about that quickly
do we know of anyone who's who's blocked
on this either from like package vendors
side with a browser side just curious if
we need to be unblocking someone it
urgently delegated through thing or
garbage collection tell your routing
don't work Curie's got either I'm really
interested in delegates at I think
because it's unlocks embedded JSOC EFS
in brave to be useful before we
implement actual peer-to-peer transport
right now unless you are connected to
note that already has a content the
embedded note is not that useful you are
not able to use it for anything
practical that's why it's not like the
default in the brave so I played with it
I have opinions and even filled some
shoes
you
okay yeah I mean and specifically I
guess there are only a few options for
finding and connecting connecting two
nodes finding peers and and getting
content for JSON APIs in the browser and
this is adding another ones that would
be really really reliable to the mix so
it would be good to get it together cool
okay thank you sip just raise your hand
sorry delegated routing like this if you
only delegated the routing portion and
you still like you found this peer how
do you connect to them if your
connectivity is still limited there's
this like then you would just broadcast
a pub/sub message to them or something
or see it also open the swarm Connect
API so you'd get the other node to
connect them there so you'll this is
just to find more peers that you are
able to connect to because right now the
routing system you have to be
participating fully to
or it gets to its defined content so the
problem is like currently finding
complicates your cards making you many
many many connections in this case you
ask so it also make all those
connections and they tell you to connect
to and then connect the person's content
okay cool this could also partially
fixed by the DHT or getting a lot of the
D gene nodes offline if they're not
currently make hundreds of connections
that used to your question at like very
worst case scenario make it twenty
connections usually like five
connections okay that's okay
that's interesting context Thanks this
is a relatively low hanging fruit like
the amount of work required is not huge
yes the the period was mostly done I
seem to have roots stalls on random
security questions and then it kind of
became like we don't really care about
this was some reason I can't you know
why is excision
obviously that's it's being revisited
now I have to go back through and like
dredge up old memories
I can't run boy yeah I only bring that
up because I wonder if this is a good if
we could this is the type of issue that
if we could truly spin up you know like
JSI TFS people on some
six of the go code base that they like
might be able to do on their own
I you know or it just seems like that
type of issue because like all I think
mostly in petitions they're the options
are in the config it's literally just it
hasn't been plumbed through for some
reason like you can a contra watch yeah
so a slight allure for Alan or anyone
else who would be excited about pushing
this forward a little bit maybe Steven
will donate a little bit of ramp up time
to helping pass context and then this is
you can move forward on without being
blocked on someone on the first team by
the way just like a quick clarification
about what's actually blocked our
preload nodes are set up so that
actually we are able to use them without
making those changes to go ideas so it's
like not a hard block the problem is
that people who would be interested in
running delegated routing they would
have to use our infrastructure so that's
what's blocked yeah it seems yeah and
the advantages that if if they weren't
relying on our gateways they could be
setting up their idea best nodes which
would be potentially much easier for
them and good for us
yeah I totally agree that we should not
like make a blog post about this feature
or should not publish dogs that feature
unless we are able we have
infrastructure and code in place so
people can run their own preload notes
that's basically I'd be excited about
pushing it over the line I can help I'll
push the go things in the right way if I
can already there's like a separate
topic of performance in web browser
because this is this
future is designed to be run in web
browser and the way it's in the preload
modules are implemented they just
shotgun the requests and if you have a
lot of providers it's just a lot of
requests and web browser is limiting the
number of the connection you can do to a
single host name to like six connections
which is pretty bad and you get like
slow down everything to the crowd
so I I'll be addressing that so I think
I feel they should probably will fix
stuff in that year I'm actually not sure
now this is easy to fix just because
well this was the link to in chat this
was the rest of the pishon will say but
you look great or somebody pick up in
this maybe talk to Lars and seek when
his reason here was but yeah I got
dropped because it was complex thank you
okay so next how long do we have for
this is a whole hour yes whirring we had
only two minutes left
gossip sub who added this one this is
also a job don't 180 cool trust me so
basically last week I finished most of
the remaining work integrating those
lips of Angelica P including it also
interoperability test suite go so we did
last Friday
Shane safe guys released a new version
including the also the fallback for a
flood soap so Jacob is on only late this
week but next week I hope that we will
release release candidate for Jess which
we including gossip so and meanwhile I
also will start working on carrying
Jessica Fest ready for this new release
that's the configuration for choosing
what books have implementation you want
to use will change in just slip away so
yes I hope we have
gossips in the near future in Jessup FSS
oh yeah can I ask a question to go
people
what is the status of gossip something
go if this is it the default or
experimental as far as it well I think
it's a good like it's a default I think
it's a crime chuckling yeah it's
actually it's technically experimental
but it's it's a default from the
experimentals right yeah cuz pub/sub is
so experimental
it may be TV fault
once you've enabled hopes up a question
ago Liberty here is the defaults so I
believe it's the default as all my
breakfast no no it looks like no it
looks like if you enable hopes up it's
by default
floods up yeah but we can switch that
they are interoperable right but the
both of the implementations yes yeah but
like it's the default basically we're
like if I if I pick floods of and you
pick gossip so we all speak plus up as
best got words
not exactly alright well if we get that
inch genocide the best we can maybe
search D :
not recall which email especially
default even before then because it is
backwards credible I think this is
absolutely thank and it being
experimental I think it makes sense to
just shift to gossip so uh yeah given if
entire thing is traveling yeah you're
right you know alright with do you have
anything else to say
gosh go on on that or showing the one
[Music]
having just given in each T's not like
fully enabled yet like so I guess if
something go as far as understand
discovery and like there's any leap
you'd be implemented without a teach T
never by defaults or any other figure
out a mechanism enable by default is it
able to support concepts up to its
fullest or or no it is it is better able
to support concepts of a bit what's up
so flood server it depends entirely on
being connected to here's a part of the
network gossips absolved one you have
believed then do peer exchange I think
you peer change yeah it's a protocol I
think so I'm not entirely sure yes the
they exchange gossip messages
propagating metadata to the other peers
but does that tell the other like do I
tell about my other Gospels it appears
no but you tell your the gossips appear
that you know and they prefer gets the
message to the other ones that he knows
okay sorry anything like do I tell you
about my gossip sub peers I don't think
so okay so there's no peer exchange okay
okay I'm not
No yeah the issue is if there is no
Pierre change happening then it's hard
to like form a spanning tree because you
just don't know to send the things all
right you need to find peers but let's
do as homework like read this back last
impression there okay any other
questions on gossip sir before we move
on all right let's move on was next so
the main gateway they switched to origin
isolation making it easier for base
which included Serie B one to be used in
DNS as a subdomain label I'm gonna guess
it I do yeah it's something we talked
before today we Steven but I feel it's
something worth mentioning that's
happening subdomain gateway it turns out
to be an interesting infection point
between our CID v1 base 42 initiative
and also oh it's a vessel to solving
original isolation for both of the
gateways and also local host gateway so
there are multiple problems that it
theoretically solves but it could
depending on what we will implement in
which order it will solve different
things for different people so I just
wanted to highlight this and give you a
brief overview where we are and what's
happening here so subdomain gateway it's
basically content identifier in sub
domain instead of location path and it's
actually shipped in userland CloudFlare
and also we have the web link public
gateway which supports that the problem
is that the way it's supported right now
it's at the nginx level it's like River
reverse proxy which takes care of
Trane's taking a CID from sub-domain and
converting that CID to request to
regular old school gateway which was a
addressed so the first thing that
subdomain in gateway support like native
support for subdomain gateways would
salt would be the need for having
something in front of go ipfs to have
something subdomain gateway so we want
to make it easier for people to run
their own public subdomain gateways that
provide original isolation similar to
cloud cells without the need and the
complexity of running a reverse proxy
and setting that up so that's one thing
and there's like a related issue on that
and we identified some open questions
how maybe that in the next step so the
second step is if we have support for
subdomain gateway and we run go ipfs on
localhost then we have those something
something that local host fake domains
for local host that could in theory
provide a subdomain gateway for your
local host machine and this is where it
gets interesting because you get a
parity between origin isolation on the
public gateways and you also have
originals relation of the local gateway
so the problem here is this transition
path where we have people running local
gateway which is path address and then
we suddenly introduced subdomain one we
have some nodes in the issue I linked
about how that should we figured out the
redirects because we don't want to
support both on the same origin that
would break the isolation so that's like
an open effort we will difficult out
through this week and another thing when
we have that we could also implement
HTTP proxy on top of that that would be
like a much smaller change and that
would give us better UX in a web browser
that has like companion or
the other web browser that sets up go i
PF SS HTTP proxy that would enable us to
remove a custom port and make host names
look better and picky by going back to
the base 32 initiative subdomains could
support not only ipfs but also IP NS and
we finally sort of figured out how to
represent peer ids in subdomains and
we've added multi codec for the p2p keys
and the remaining steps are wiring up
the CID support instead of multi
Hodgkiss in multiple places both in go
and enjoy as I believe we assumed pure
ID to be multi harsh effectively CID v0q
em something and we would need to find
all those places to our eat it up so the
multi hash from the CID is extracted and
supported I believe that's it more or
less if steven has any thoughts on on
that I don't have any new thoughts on
everything like what are the boundaries
as an HTTP server sort of like putting
this directly in ipfs but at some point
it's like you know like at what point
are you now replicating nginx you know
and something that is like really the
domain of something that is designed to
be a web server like a professional web
server versus something that is you know
a basic HTTP support so basically here
we just we want enough so that we can
integrate admits into web browsers and
that's it I don't think we have any
intention of like working really hard on
before when it's not that in terms of
like like really seasoned Ross it's like
a shame
a lot of really complex since we could
use it we're probably not going to do
everybody's all the pricing shakes out
in front of it in this case it's more
about like we're trying to bake office
work with web browsers and web browsers
have a lot of built-in like constraints
that make that hard to do yeah same
origin and whatnot so like we could do
is say hey users you have to install
these two things or we could say
whatever so let's 1k and it just kind of
magically works and if that's really the
key part here is Newswatch was a it's
all this one application and you're done
I would like the part of this
conversation you're going to have with
utility vestige of two pieces of goods
the library and then going with the
application we can make it very clear
look here's the core and then here is
like in the end user like application
side of things but that's a more
complicated procedure that's part of
like the whole court era factor as well
it's a very good question and it's
something that we run into all the time
like more features more features more
features but like you gets basically
ship one application to use just a
second you say please install two
applications well that's we already do
we actually we do literally shove a
single binary yeah but yeah basically
like this is not for like this oh it's
for my server yes we could say like hey
like you install it the festival ain't
used on nginx reference proxy and it's
actually outputting to everyone once the
Gateway but we're friendship and usually
the use case here is an end user and
something to remember is that like the
idea the better way to think about the
HTTP in ipfs is that we ipfs provides
HTTP interrupt layer out of the box but
it's not like we implement entire
HTTP back the for example we support
range requests
but only for a single wrench we we
support like HTTP caching semantics we
put like see IDs in attacks and other
stuffs of the web browsers benefit from
built-in HTTP caching layer that's
already like implemented everywhere but
we we only implement what makes sense in
ipfs context it's not like it's not
one-to-one mapping we just need to be
very careful about what we map and what
we expose over HTTP sure thank you thank
you - I was really good question
actually um any other questions before
we move on to blockers alrighty then
we've got block as an answer relatively
small a small ask to help out on the
forums on the discuss forums on discuss
that idea I thought I oh there's notes
and on the IRC channels I have s and
ipfs - dev please hang out or help out
if you can with things on there did you
ever put that down - yep do you want to
say something yeah so like the the set
of people who are doing this is actually
fairly small and it's a lot of work and
very like distracting time-consuming so
we had more people jumping on this would
be really helpful it also helps the
community like see that hey yes for
involves we're interacting with them
kind of stuff I just discuss forms could
definitely software help IRC and
generally because if you have more
people different time zones even have
better responsiveness and like again
better community engagement right now
that we have some great people in the
community doing this but they don't
always have visibility like into we're
currently on so more people who are like
in the core foundations group that
understand what we're working on going
out that you mean like telling people
what's going on really helpful
also if we are working on ourselves then
we have a good idea of what are the
common questions that are coming up and
where where where we don't have the
documentation to fill that out and where
to point people at and and we can say
what I find often is that when I'm
answering issues on Jess I'd be there so
if I have to write out the same thing
twice and that's really annoying so I
ended up making a book for that and
we're only going to find out about that
by actually participating these sorts of
things so I guess this is awesome I ask
we could make up the docs team of hey
dogs team yeah this is a great thing to
do as well yeah that's right but cool
okay are there any other blockers or
asks that people want to voice with
respect to questions at i/o so yes we
getting quite a few questions around
like you know why is this gateway not
working or whatever I'm not sure always
like how public our information is about
where we're up to with firefighting or
whatever is there somewhere I can find
that out of I actually created a couple
of issues in the code history Pro at
least because this is where everyone
tends to go if you got a tag meta that's
usually how you find these is meta I
know whatever label meta in terrifying
issue content resolution and Gateway
performance they tries to cover a bunch
of these issues in tries to explain it
someone is my check not showing up okay
well the issue number is six three eight
three and up with us I can't get the
zoom chat too reckless the other thing
that's in the pipeline is a Status page
for I conversely PTP things I know Ollie
is working on that right now which will
eventually help people to have an
overview of what's currently working
currently not working and why
so that that will be cool when it's done
should help yeah the other thing here's
obviously we just need to like you know
fix the thing so we can stop answering
questions on this because a lot you
working yeah I guess it's one thing to
kind of say like you know we know this
stuff is broken but probably people
really want to know like what are you
doing to fix it when they're gonna be
ready right yeah yeah in the current
answer that is like these from my
perspectives we were first working on
the testing - there's like we have
something cuz they were not sure about
so first gonna make the testing like
stall is we can actually tell what these
fixes will do to the network that like
is throwing everything then we're going
to release much fixes and the timeline
on this is unfortunately probably two
three months before we start to find
these fixes the network that makes sense
do you think that should be public
information I don't know like if we want
to make commitments to that like
probably it's not a decision for us to
make necessarily I wouldn't make
commitments on the two to three months
thing because we don't know I definitely
actually don't do that I do we can give
the roadmap of like yeah now this this
jettisoned document is public
I don't know how widely want link to
that but they asked me say look like we
are currently building out massive test
the infrastructure to try to better
resume networking better person change
debate and that is the cart thing yeah I
guess maybe it's more like it calms
issue like because you might save a lot
of frustration and you know reddit post
and stuff if we can we can communicate
that effectively yeah so one broad Coast
where of course writing right now is the
release process
another great post I think would be this
whole like testing thing I don't know
I'm not a really a commas person I don't
know
well I'd say there is was get through
really without thing and I feel very
confident and I feel that it's very
smooth can I get the support from the
partners and so on and people saying
like every day I mean anything like
quite intensely reason
and am i doing the Buccos person I might
like my standpoint do something that's
then we'll have more updates so I think
those are two issues here is like
there's the release process in the
current release which will fix some
burning pyres but it will not fix any to
get patience when you touch them yeah
the Gateway issues are long-standing
other issues that won't get fixed until
we are actually up we have testing of a
structure and starts at big shipping
like really large changes to the network
it's likely yes we should we should wait
till we got this release and like make
the market best but like the police
possum kind of stuff but like even then
we're still not going to be like a
couple weeks away from fixing the entire
thing yeah I guess like where my head is
at which might be wrong is kind of like
only make buzz around for for the
Gateway issues it'll be good to make a
little bit more progress yeah I agree
the concern is that if we have three
months of delays then we have to be able
to tell people something and so like
this is this is actually really my
concern with not releasing for three
months because like we're going to have
to tell people things a few months yeah
I think we should talk about this in the
gateway blow or the release process blog
post that this is all in the community's
best interest that we are doing this
such that we don't release regressions
and that we make sure that we are
hitting our goal of becoming more
production-ready and that that involves
investing time upfront and then that
will pay off significantly over time and
so I think our blog post that we do now
around how we're improving the the
release process can be - and allude to
what we hope this will improve in the
future and then we can potentially
follow that up as well with like we
talked about all of this release process
stuff but what's all the testing things
and the growth
how are we adapting to it I think the
thing we can do for it not to take three
months is we can significantly cut down
the amount of time it takes to build
large-scale testing infra right now
that's slated to be the largest thing if
we can pair a little ice that more we
can get more people on it in such a way
that it takes less time to build out and
that will significantly decrease the
time that's the biggest Walker and I
think getting more people on it will
help spread the knowledge reality
because I think understanding how that
infra is going to work is not going to
sort of tribal knowledge and it's not
going to be good to have it locked up
with two or three people so
I'd like to get my head into that
because I'm gonna need it
oh say say I'll try now I can yeah like
perhaps like people can do a
self-assessment rather than trying to
get everything it's been a wiener doc
like in do an experiment where everyone
just like checks the priorities for the
next two months and like they stack
ranking against like these like testing
infrastructure thing and they feel as I
hey like actually even what I'm doing
would benefit from having access to
infrastructure then and like that they
feel also confident they can contribute
that superstructure then it might be a
good decision like to Mike whatever they
are doing to help I can other things is
also events like if we have like too
many events planned for the kicker
months like a participation in events
get something at fixed time either from
preparing content like following the
days there if destiny pays it easier to
be zeros like what else can like slow
down or pause or cuts to make sure the
bleep we get this as soon as possible
otherwise it's like it's something that
keeps helping us every day I know this
is an idea it's not like they do this
bringing the question of for everyone to
think about it would be cool for it to
take much shorter time than that then
what we think okay so look as an asset
we've got no other blockers and asks
then we're on to questions does anyone
have any ad lib questions that have just
popped up in their head that they want
to quickly ask we've got six minutes
left
all right sorry Maya no you do you think
Kristen then I'll talk my quick question
gonna be talk about tests I would like
just checking out familiar are is they
go ipfs team on the net benchmarks that
I because the team like that I wanted me
on lead for as in January and if you are
all updates are you so is that for you
or these are like yes what all luck
useful I heard about it briefly I have
never seen it hi I seem to remember not
being able to get our work and do it for
some reason
yeah is that something you want to
explore more yes if you look at the the
list of Studios one of them is having
some kind of UI for this we need to find
a web be right for tracking performance
over time I don't know what that ever
look like cuz I didn't even know I
thought it was finished where do you at
some point wait yeah so I need to see it
to actually know that see if it's what
we're looking for
got it oh and can do it can you do a
demo Christina I can do it I can fix it
up I know that it got broken and it has
been on my plate to get around to fixing
it and I think Hugo and I are the only
people with keys to it so it just it
needs to be sorted out but it what it
was there at one point and the only
thing that was missing from my point of
view was hooking it up to see I so that
it ran every time we did a pull request
but we had a bunch of tests that we
defined there there's a whole table with
different kind of scenarios and things
we've done it's not like thousands and
thousands of nodes testing but it is it
is doing specific actions we have ipfs
and tracking the time it takes to like
transfer a file between like ji per
person go
give us or adding a file to just JCPS or
just go ipfs I'm it's that sort of
benchmarks and they're a space for
coding more Bureau yeah that's exactly
what we need that's like the the first
if you look at the the our roadmap I the
basically first section is just like get
a bunch of those benchmarks running and
then track these over time and have like
some crappy web UI I say crappy because
I don't want to waste time on it just
like more progress vana okay is like
ideally it also be public so if anyone
can see this in traffic it yeah I do
wanna hide this stuff behind yeah yeah
yeah it's it's pay for this um alright I
will
I'll get it up and running again as a
priority there's an absolute wonderful
that would save us yeah okay it's a nice
there's a recording at the near 14 beads
like to show us what it's like it still
as its value and it'll be an hour but
yeah it would be good like to gratis
work because again I think it's a lot of
like that or at least a little bit of
the testing orders this is great
cool alright I'll try and get it running
and then maybe give it from the
presentation or record something so that
you guys can watch and understand what's
there and and yeah we awesome if I could
also look at CI as well cuz I want it as
well alright well it is do we have any
other questions quickly the thing I was
gonna bring up was just um two beads
spec maintainer PR I think that
use more visibility and also I think
there are more people that have
mentioned blockers in their personal
notes than mentioned blockers in this
meeting if you have blockers that you're
going to need people's visibility into
to call them out but I thought and urges
at hand
yeah I just opened an issue on Friday I
think but hadn't seen any activity on it
I don't know what the how kind of the
level of triage that we're doing but it
would be good for like in general if
people are opening issues just to
acknowledge them even if we can't look
like we know that we don't have the
bandwidth to do anything about them I
agree is that my fault
this is a plain thing that I noticed
okay I totally agree I try and get to
issues as soon as I can but it has been
super hectic lately and I've had a bunch
of things that I needed to close out and
still there are many issues that in my
wait list that is still need to get to
say
yeah please be patient but yeah I do
like it would be just like in the core
tasks in the blocker section that we've
literally just thought about if people
help in you know answering issues on
chairs ifs or go ipfs if they are just
problems that people have or questions
and then that would be super helpful as
well okay we are at time everyone it's
been lovely to have all your faces in
this grid and see you again
so I'm gonna call this meeting a success
and we shall close and finish for today
until this same time next week for core
implementations go and Jess like a 15
all right I imagine when we have all the
way